Welcome to the Petty Profit Podcast.
It has been a long time.
It's been almost a month.
I think, yeah, pretty close to a month that I have been out of the picture here.
And I am back.
I'm kind of trying to get back into the groove this week with the podcast and with some other stuff.
So appreciate your patience while I kind of get some of that into gear.
But I went on vacation.
And then as soon as I came back from vacation, I started a new job.
And so that was kind of a crazy whirlwind of activity.
It kept me really busy at the same time.
We're getting our house ready to sell here this fall.
So it's been crazy and it's been fun.
And I just, I have not abandoned the podcast.
We are gonna keep this thing going because I really love it.
And I go through withdrawals when I'm not doing it, when I'm not talking with my brothers.
So we're gonna keep it going.
The episode that I'm bringing you today is actually a podcast that my brother Aaron and Sam recorded while I was gone on vacation to kind of help fill in the gap a little bit.
And then I came back from vacation and I just could not get around to editing this thing and getting it out.
So I'm really sorry, but here it finally is.
And they did a great job.
They talked about mental health, which I thought was a really
interesting conversation, kind of like the, you know, the pop Instagram mental health isms that are out there, you know, the popularity around it.
Where are we in this, you know, this COVID, you know, horrific situation our countries in with mental health?
And then ultimately, as always, what does Christ offer?
that the world doesn't, that our own mental health systems don't.
And so I thought Aaron and Sam did a great job on this discussion, even though I wasn't there, even though Joel, the trained broadcast professional was not present, they really did a great job filling in.
So we are going to have another man hug episode for you hopefully later on this week, a fresh one with the three of us.
So stay tuned for that.
And thanks for your patience.
Sorry I was gone so long, but we are back.
We are getting back into gear here.
Love you guys.
Be sure to write in with any questions.
Leave a five star review on iTunes, all that good stuff.
But without further delay, let's get into it.
Aaron and Sam talking about mental health.
We'll see you again here soon with a fresh man hug later this week.
All right.
Bye.
I mean, when our mouths open up, gold nuggets just drops on the floor, and it's up to our listeners to pick them up and forge them into beautiful pieces of jewelry and head coverings.
Pick up our gold nuggets, everyone.
Yeah.
Well, this is going well.
All right.
Just Aaron and I today.
Yeah, let's get this.
Let's let's let's let's let's ramp into this.
Let's yeah.
I'm ready for it.
Hello everyone and welcome to the man hug with Sam and Aaron.
Okay.
Yeah.
Joel doesn't realize we're we're bringing in a new flavor.
Exactly.
Where today is the first day of our new podcast flavor.
We are turning the man hug on its head and it doesn't include politics.
Everything.
Yeah.
So anyway, welcome everyone.
Hi, it's just Sam and Aaron here today.
Joel is out in a boot.
Where is he?
Vacation or something?
Yeah.
So he's out on vacation or doing something with his family this week and he asked
Sam and I to jump on and record in his absence.
And with this, we feel like we have such incredible, incredible power.
Emily said that they didn't last two days camping and they got a hotel or something like that.
Yep.
Which ironically, that happened to mom and dad too.
Really?
Yeah.
But mom was like eight months pregnant, wasn't she?
Yes.
Okay.
It was like a red little pup tent.
See, that's fair.
In the pouring rain.
Yeah.
I really want to hear that everything from that camping trip because it sounds like it would be entertaining.
So yeah, Joel and his wife and family tried roughing it and do camping, which I'm going to guess is Joel's idea.
I feel like that was Joel's idea.
Oh, definitely.
Yeah, bonding time with boys.
They love outside.
It's great.
Yeah.
And then they, I guess they didn't, they lasted one night and then got a hotel.
So we're here.
We're excited to have the opportunity to make fun of Joel without his pushback.
And Sam, what are we really excited about, about Joel not being here?
I don't know.
No politics today.
There we go.
Yeah, that's yeah.
No politics this week, guys.
We all enjoy politics as much as the next guy.
But since Joel is just the resident lib owner, we decided, you know, we can't own lives like Joel.
Yeah, Joel.
Yeah.
So we're not even going to try the same level of onage.
No.
And in all honesty, I mean, aren't we all just a little tired of the politics?
Yeah, tell me about it.
My goodness.
It's just the same thing.
It's just.
Oh, yeah.
So, yeah.
This is, this is going to, we're going to try to be a politics free episode today.
Um, and I've tried to put some safeguards in place actually to make sure we don't.
All right.
So if, if I sense you or me, um, drifting into the politics realm, um, you will hear the sound.
So, um, be warned.
and I'll be keeping a close eye on our topic and our conversation to make sure that's pretty good.
I do not fall prey to politics.
You know what has come to mind recently?
This is not about politics.
Do you have like a little like a little like a meme soundboard with all of it's incredible.
There's so many great things here.
I'll try not to be too annoying with it.
Let's go ahead.
I was thinking about the proverb where it personified the proverb, the chapters and proverbs or personifies wisdom as a woman shouting from the rooftops and in the gates calling to passers by and being completely ignored.
I think that's an incredible allegory of what we see just people being right now.
I think that wisdom is there.
It's always been there.
Wisdom understanding but people are chasing what they want to chase and they're hearing what they want to hear and It's being ignored Yeah, that's that's a that is very true and Very app description of people these days people these days people these days kids these days so Yeah, we're gonna try to
Maybe go a slightly different direction.
Joel, and not just in case as you listen to this, we're not saying that we don't like talking politics.
We do.
We're just saying we don't like you.
That's really what we're trying to get at.
It's not personal.
It's just you personally.
No, we actually are very nervous about being able to put together a quality podcast without Joel's expertise.
If you took a triangle and took one of the points away,
Exactly.
What do you have?
You have an acute angle.
That's what you have.
You have a trapezoid.
No, you'd have an acute angle.
Would you?
Yeah.
No.
Yes.
You'd have a triangle move one of the sides.
What do you have in an acute angle?
I'm so confused.
That's the man geometry man.
I'm not picturing that in my head.
And that's... Yep.
Okay, so we are the acute angle, Aaron and Sam today.
Yeah, we'll try not to be able to.
Not that we're cute.
Anyway, we wanted to talk about, I thought it would be interesting for us to talk a little bit about the topic of mental health and the Christian.
So that whole area, from a Christian perspective,
I think actually is very pertinent now because there's some issues going on with the lockdown and with politics and everything else.
I mean, anxiety is on the rise, depression is on the rise, all that stuff.
I've been doing a little digging recently just about how does a Christian approach it?
How does a Christian look at the movement of mental health and discern, all right, these are really strong points about it.
These are helpful things.
These are things to be concerned about or careful of.
And how do we bring hope of the gospel into all that?
I don't know.
What do you think about that same?
How does that sound?
Sounds great.
I think it's something that more and more and more people are talking and thinking about.
I think there are multiple facets of mental health, some that are unhealthy and some that are very good.
And I think actually helpful to the conversation for a Christian.
So excited to get into it.
I think it'll be good.
Yeah.
And I think for our discussion, it'd probably be helpful to kind of try to narrow it down a little bit.
what we should talk about with mental health.
It'd probably be best for us to avoid the actual clinical issues.
We don't have to put disclaimers on our podcast.
We're not scientists or doctors.
We're not mental health experts.
We're not experts, so we're going to talk about it.
That's the theme of this podcast.
No, I think
For me, I mean, the most helpful thing to kind of walk through is the most frequent form of mental health that I think we probably come in contact with.
And that's what I kind of like to call like the Instagram mental health.
If you know what I'm talking about, where it's more popular level, you know, take care of your mental health, self love and.
Yeah, yeah.
All those catch word, cut out the toxic people in your life and stuff love.
Exactly.
Yeah.
So, I mean, meaning, let's reserve the actual clinical disorders and things like that to the experts and kind of focus on
You know, you turn on Instagram, you see all these poster stories about mental health.
It's usually along the lines of, you know, just anxiety or depression or self-esteem, self-image, all those things.
And like you said mentioned, Sam, a lot of those catch words that come along with that.
How do we as Christians kind of navigate the helpful stuff versus the
the unhelpful stuff.
Interesting.
Some of those phrases that you might hear, you mentioned setting boundaries is a big one.
I saw one that I wasn't really familiar with beforehand.
Have you heard of the phrase, taking care of your inner child?
No, I mean, that's interesting.
Yes, so I had heard that one.
So I had to kind of look at, what in the world is that supposed to mean?
Um, sometimes it's in terms of, you know, abuse, um, yeah, experience during your, your, your childhood years and you're kind of going back and not laying blame to your childhood self.
Um, or, you know, kind of going back in time, if you will.
Um, so there's that phrase I've seen a lot.
Uh, self care is a big one.
You know, self-care days.
Love yourself.
Love yourself, self-talk.
Was it is your self-talk?
What are you saying to yourself?
You mentioned the one, toxic people, toxic relationships, be kind to yourself.
Any one of them miss any other themes or catch phrases?
Yeah, I think you've nailed them.
I mean, like, you could probably insert.
You can insert white before any of those, and that's probably all trending right now.
White self-talk and white self-love and take care of your inner white child.
I don't think there's going to be much white self-love going on.
Love your white self.
I don't know what Instagram profiles you've been visiting, Sam.
Oh, they were all in German.
I couldn't, I couldn't read it.
Yeah.
Goodness.
Yeah, I think, I think that's most of them.
Um, maybe we, maybe we could start with like what, why, why do you think this is so prevalent?
Why do you think people are talking about this?
What do you think?
I mean, I think, um, I think, I think kids are no longer taught to live with themselves anymore.
Or they're not even given an identity.
This is who you are.
This is what you're supposed to be.
This is what you're supposed to do.
It's all just fed this stuff.
And their formative years are taken up by this block of just social media frenzy comparing and posting and clout and likes and busyness and jealousy and
You know, that's like, I mean, that's like, you think social media, you think high schoolers.
And I think really what it's done is stolen their sense of identity and their sense of worth.
And I think people are like, oh my gosh, something's missing.
They get to be adults and they're like, you know, who on earth am I?
And they're full of anxiety.
They're full of hatred for themselves, hatred for who they are because they've always been focused on what other people think they should be.
And so I think that's why you're seeing a lot of it.
right now.
Yeah, that's a good point.
I don't think we realize how huge of an impact social media is made.
Oh, yeah.
I think it's a lot.
I think if you're younger than 18, I'm serious.
Like if you're younger than 18, I think you should not be allowed to have any form of social media.
I think it's a drug and I think it's the most prevalent.
Yeah, it's the most prevalently legalized drug for underage kids.
Exactly.
And I think
The reason why mental health has kind of been emphasized recently in light of that is because that lifestyle of soaking in this social media content, all the pressures and the expectations, things like that, they go along with it.
People become, especially young kids, they become passive.
They're simply absorbing.
And in the process of that, you forget to be intentional about your own thoughts about
how you're thinking, what are you thinking?
And in that light, I mean, I think that the whole mental health issue is a good refocus in that regard.
Are you actually intentionally thinking?
Or are you letting other people think for you?
I've been thinking about this recently.
The brain is the only muscle in our entire body that we allow to control us.
Imagine if
your bicep just did its own thing and you had no control over what your bicep did or your abs, you know, just randomly tense up just randomly.
I'd be like, yeah, you'd have some sort of time.
I do that all the time.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Flicks my abs again.
Can't stop my peckle that.
But I think it's, you know, part of it is, yeah, you should discipline your mind and people have lost that whole idea.
of this is an aspect of it.
I think if you're going to go with the whole body, mind, and spirit, if your body you discipline, you have your mind, you discipline, and then things like, and I would say you discipline those in similar ways through exercising, through meditation, through whatever, and then you have your spirit, which is the spiritual side of you that you cannot be, that is exercised through different means, through spiritual means.
So, yeah, I don't know.
I think a lot of it is good.
Maybe it's, I don't know, it's definitely not, I think a lot of it has the wrong idea where it leans towards kind of like a treat yourself mentality, like you need to give yourself a weekend and you need to go do this and get your nails done and you need to just tell all of your girlfriends that they need to just stop talking to you for a week and that's not,
Yeah, it's whatever, but it's not really going to fix anything long term.
Yeah.
I mean, with any worldview that comes from a starting point that doesn't necessarily include God in the picture, I think you're going to find because we're made in the image of God, there will be things that they get right.
But we should fully expect them not to have a sufficient answer or to veer in the wrong direction in some areas.
I think another thing that's maybe helpful.
And we can get into like areas that probably aren't helpful or correct according to a Christian worldview.
But like, first of all, things that might be helpful or things they may get right.
I think it's interesting how the whole thing of mental health, they recognize the brokenness and emptiness that's universally experienced by mankind.
Right.
You know, I think the whole, the whole movement is realizing like, goodness, we're broken.
Like our
Our minds are just full of sorrow, anxiety, worry.
You look at like the big manual for psychology, right, is the DSM.
I think they're on issue five right now.
It's like the official manual for all of mental disorders or issues or anything like that.
Interesting.
And they have over a thousand pages of abnormalities.
And nowhere, I was listening to a lecture on this once, and the guy said that, you know, a thousand pages of abnormalities, nowhere in the book, did they define what normal is?
Huh?
Is it normal to have abnormalities?
But like, they know that something's wrong, right?
But, and they say in the introduction to the DSM-5, they clearly state that they don't know the cause for these conditions.
So these are the experts saying, like, all these
abnormalities, page after page after page, a thousand pages, we don't know what causes this.
And it says, therefore, they don't recommend any prescribed path of treatment.
So that's, I mean...
So here's a five volume issue of what's wrong with you people.
We don't know where it came from and we don't know what the fix is, but why don't you find yourself in here and diagnose yourself?
Exactly.
Yeah, here's a pill, right?
But at the very least, I think it shows
humanity's realization that we're messed up, that this isn't how it's supposed to be, right?
These are abnormal.
And in a lot of ways, like the mental health movement was actually started in a reaction to kind of the biological psychology before it, where mankind was almost treated more like animals and how to deal with
mental issues.
Let me back up a little bit there.
This is actually something different than the more traditional mental health movement in the 60s and 70s, where it was like you treat the brain as a muscle, you give it a certain amount of drug to stop those certain neurons from firing.
Is this a different ideology?
It's, I mean, obviously, psychologists and therapists still, you know, use drugs and things like that.
But it was so originally, I opened into kind of like the historical background of the movement.
And originally, it was the term was used to mental hygiene in the 1900s.
And by a guy named Clifton Beers, and it was basically an attempt to, it was a reaction against
the asylum practice.
Oh, yeah.
It was terrible.
Almost barbaric.
Yeah, I mean, you.
Yeah.
You ever seen the movie The Island?
Or no, not The Island.
What am I thinking of?
Shut.
What is it?
Is it Shutter Island?
Yeah, Shutter Island with Leonardo DiCaprio.
No.
Oh, you should watch that one.
It's really good.
I won't spoil it for you.
It's a...
Yeah, the whole thing takes place on this like in mental island, asylum island, and there's a massive twist at the end and you knew to check it out.
It's pretty great.
Check that one out.
Yeah, but basically that's where it rose out of.
So this guy clipped in beers, started a movement called mental hygiene, and basically to protect those who had been mistreated by this earlier form, trying to promote a mentally healthy state.
You know, how do you, instead of just sticking them in an asylum, putting them in a straight jacket, how do we put them into an environment that promotes healthy mental, healthy mental state?
I think, you know, generally speaking, that's a good reaction.
Yeah, I'd say so.
Yeah.
Because it's better than lobotomizing people.
Right.
Yeah.
I think it's, it's, it's another, again, just kind of how like humanity realizes that we're,
We're broken.
We can't really put the finger on why or what's normal.
It's also a human realization that man is more than just flesh and blood, right?
We're not just, we're not animals.
And it almost brings the humaneness back to humanity.
It treats people more like humans.
And again, that's without really having a clear understanding of what is true health.
what is an actual thriving, mentally healthy state.
So those are all, I think, positive things, right?
But again, because of the worldview that it's built on, if it doesn't include God, we're going to kind of expect to see some
some issues, some concerns.
I think it's interesting, there's this reaction to like, oh, people aren't animals, like they shouldn't be putting these asylums and treated like animals and barbarized.
And they don't know why there's, I guess there's like this sense of human dignity, like we shouldn't treat people this way, but there's no real true answer to that.
Yeah.
Besides, maybe like utilitarianism, like the greatest
Um, what is utilitarianism going to botch this?
Um, the whole foundation of, you know, the greatest good for the greatest amount of people, right?
Um, which in itself, I mean, has, you know, flaws in its foundation because why, right?
You could be like, well, why?
What does that matter?
Um, so, um, yeah, the, the doctrine that action is right in so far as it promotes happiness and that there is the greatest happiness.
The greatest happiness of the greatest number should be the guiding principle of conduct, which you really could take that down a lot of interesting roads if you take that to its full extent.
You know, like, oh, in order to make everybody happy, we need to enslave the human population and force them that, you know what I mean?
Yeah, it depends on who gets to define what happens.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
So again, it's a recognition generally that this is how it should be.
Uh, this or, you know, things, the way things are isn't how they should be.
But generally coming short to a full comprehensive understanding of why, you know.
Um, so anyway, like, like if you're to go to mentalhealth.gov.
All right.
So it has dot gov.
So, um, that means it's official.
There it is.
But also government has to do with politics.
So here's what they say is early warning signs if you're suffering from a mental health issue.
Eating or sleeping too much or too little, pulling away from people.
Okay.
All right.
Eating or sleeping too much or too little.
Okay.
Well, check that box for me, I guess.
Pulling away from people are usual activities.
Having low or no energy everyone in the past two months exactly We just put quarantine quarantine everybody the United States population Feeling numb or like nothing matters having unexplained aches or pains feeling helpless or hopeless Smoking drinking using drugs more than usual feeling unusually confused forgetful on edge angry upset worried or scared Yelling or fighting with family and friends experiencing severe mood swings that cause problems in relationships and
having persistent thoughts and memories you can't get out of your head, hearing voices or believing things that are not true, thinking of harming yourself or others in ability to perform daily tasks like taking care of your kids or getting to school or work.
So really all those things seem to be kind of dancing around the issues of anxiety, depression, things like that.
Well, I think what that list can't do and, you know, it seems to me like a pretty solid list like here's some, you know, here are some symptoms that might mean you have an issue.
You know, obviously what something like that cannot do is, here's why.
And every individual has, I believe, a different reason.
Sometimes it's physiological, you know, other times it's,
emotional or stems from trauma or dysfunction.
But that's going to be different for every person, I think.
Yeah.
And so on this website, what is the four dimensions of recovery?
So if you're having a problem, how do you recover from it?
They say that the four key dimensions of your recovery are, first of all,
health, so making informed healthy choices that support physical and emotional well-being.
Second would be home, have a stable and safe place to live.
Three, purpose, you have to engage in meaningful activities such as a job or school or volunteering, caring for your family or being creative, work for independence, income, and resources to participate in society.
And then fourthly, community, build relationships and social networks that provide support.
So those are the four things, health, home, purpose, community.
And I say, if you want to conquer your mental health issue, whether that's anxiety or depression, that's what you need to, that's what you need to seek if you're gonna be healthy.
Is that a good enough list?
I mean, I would argue that, yeah, they help.
I mean, if you don't have any community, I mean, that'll definitely help.
I mean, that's something I'm feeling right now is like, no community whatsoever.
Yeah, it has effects on my mental health.
There's not as much communication with other people.
There's not as much shouldering of burdens or discussing different life things or future events that we have planned.
I think obviously the missing factor is gonna be like that God created us in his image.
And those things, you have that community, for Christians that's found in a body of believers.
When you have purpose and when you have mission, that's not found in a job that's found in pursuing the presence of God and pursuing Him and pursuing that with other believers.
Healthiness is not just healthy for the sake of being mentally fit,
Like stewarding the body God has given me and, you know, making sure I'm leading myself well enough to be energetic enough and able-minded enough to lead other people and to lead my family.
So I think, you know, a lot of these things are like, yes, it's like they're like so close, but so far, you know, these are all good things that I think God has gifted us that absolutely help with mental health issues, but
You know, ultimately, when you're talking about eternity, you know, those things might help you on this earth, but, you know, they're really not going to truly satisfy.
You know, I know people that have all those things and they pursue their career and 20 years down their career path, they're miserable and they're doing drugs and they're tanking everything.
You know, they throw everything in the garbage, their family, their communities, their wealth, throw it all away because it does not satisfy.
And, you know,
I'm thankful.
I think part of things like this and kind of this movement, part of it is a grace of God.
I think it's part of his common grace that people have enough self-awareness to understand that these are good things.
But ultimately, they're not the only thing or they're not the best things.
They're not going to solve your problems.
Yeah, that's a really good point because all four of those components
You can't look at that and say, oh, that's wrong.
You should pursue those things.
But you can think very easily of scenarios in which someone has those things and still has anxiety or depression, right?
You have a wonderful home life, comfortable, safe, secure, no pressures.
People in that situation still have problems, right?
I mean, that's America.
I mean, we all have jobs.
We have, you know,
About a dozen apple products in every single home, we have air conditioning, we have heating, we have a place to stay, we have a car to zip around wherever the heck we want to.
And we're plagued by anxiety and depression more than any other generation in the world.
Or even a good job being able to be this.
plenty of people who have a very effective job.
And every single time I'm like in a job for more than a year, no matter how great it is, I start getting anxious about it.
It's like, it's like, I don't like it right somewhere else.
But even the people that love their job, right, they found a place to be an outlet, to just to really invest themselves.
They find enjoyment of that, but that doesn't, those people too.
I mean, they have, that doesn't make them immune from it.
And then,
You know, yeah, healthy, healthy choices, right?
That's all good.
And I think the body and the mind are very vitally connected and physical decisions you make, how you take care of everybody are going to impact your mind.
But what about the person who's disabled and can't, right?
So is that person just hopeless for any possibility of mental health, right?
And so like the world is able to offer, here's some good things, things that might help, but
in so many ways that they can come short, right?
Well, I think what is, you know, that could be their definition of this is what a normal person looks like.
They pursue health, they have a career, they have a community, and they have a safe home.
Like if you have those four things that, you know, you could define that as like, this is a normal person, but what they can't explain is, you know, first of all, people that have that are still anxious and there's people that can't
Or we'll never have that.
It's a very Western template.
Yeah.
Very white.
It's very white.
Just all this mental health stuff.
It's just all this whiteness.
I just can't stand it.
But honestly, I think if we're going to take God's word and say God's word has the answer for how a healthy mind functions, the solution should be universally applicable to every believer, no matter where they are,
or what their situation or what their income is or what their job is.
If you, if you, if you tie mental health to those things, your, your circumstance, your setting, your home, then that limits the amount of, who actually can achieve mental health.
Yeah.
Talk about, that's like so discouraging when you think about it.
And I think, you know, just get out of your,
American mindset for a little bit and just think about the entire world you have people in war-torn countries you have you have Christians undergoing persecution you have You know these people going through hardship and you find that like that These people are more stable a lot of times and we are over here And they're stronger and they don't and I think it's you know potentially like there's an aspect to hardship and trial you know whether you're
a Christian or a non-Christian that actually makes you realize what's important in your life.
Yeah, and you can't just muster up hardship, you know, I mean, I guess you could move to it, you know, an island.
Give it your privilege, man.
That's what you do.
Yeah, I could give up my white privilege.
I still don't know how to do that if anyone has any ideas on how I can see my privilege.
I would love to learn how to do this.
You see the video of the guy doing an apology lunch?
No.
Oh wait, yeah.
He was in his car and he brought up a black guy.
A bunch of black guy's hamburgers.
His apology lunch.
Oh, how disgusting.
That's so nasty.
Why don't you feed your family?
Why don't you like to why don't you stop cheating on your wife and why don't you go home and why don't you spend time with your kids?
You dirtbag.
That's how to promote mental health.
I'm not making assumptions at all.
He's probably a guy.
That's whatever.
Oh, man.
Well, and I don't want to get ahead of you, Aaron, but I would love to.
I feel like the church has had a response on both sides of this issue that have been very unhealthy, I think, on one side.
That's actually what I wanted to get to.
So go ahead.
Yeah, cool.
I think on one side, you have this very unhealthy view of the sufficiency of scripture, which is, in other words,
that the physical words of scripture will fix you.
And all you have to do is recite and repeat these words enough and you'll be fixed.
And your problem and the reason that you are having all these issues in your life and that you can't think straight and that you're schizophrenic is that you're just not memorizing enough scripture.
So why don't you go read the scripture passage a hundred thousand times and your problem will be solved.
And then I think- Take two of these pills and call me in the morning, right?
Yeah, exactly.
For real.
And then I think
what you see more recently in evangelicalism is, you know, this whole emotionally healthy spirituality type of thing where it's like, you know, God's not purpose is not necessarily to save me.
It is.
Yeah, it's to save me, but also, yeah, it's to save me.
I get it.
But also like his purpose is to like give me calmness and like make my life balanced and like teach me how to have this
perfectly balanced life and I think the latter in a sense as a reaction to I think the very narrow-minded former issue.
Yeah.
So.
Yeah, that's a good point.
I think the tendency, at least probably what we've seen in the past in our experience would be painting every
mental health issue as a sin issue, right?
Even to the point of, you know, someone who has experienced incredible trauma and sorrow and instead of first coming alongside and bringing comfort and support and help you lead with, well, you know, you're handling this sinfully.
Right.
Yeah.
I don't care about what happened to you.
They're like, what I care about is your sinful response.
Your sinful response is what's going to send you to hell.
And that's really what I'm concerned about is making sure you don't go to hell, which sounds really, really spiritual, but there's a really great person.
Totally what Jesus did.
He did the same thing.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
There's a really great verse in 1 Thessalonians 5, 14 where he says, warn the unruly, but you comfort the feeble-minded.
And you help the weak and your patient with all that means if you're addressing every single person as the unruly person is warning warning warning warning You're gonna crush the feeble-minded person.
You're gonna frustrate the weak person So basically I think the tendency in the past has often been that Every issue is a sin issue And the answer is simply like you said just memorize these verses
and just just memorize the verses and treating them like a medication.
Instead of really helping them see the beauty of scripture, you know, for themselves, making, help them when they come alive to them, show them how it connects to their life.
And you're right that the reaction now in Christianity broadly is every sin issue is a mental, mental health issue.
Right.
Yeah.
I remember growing up like,
Um, you know, the idea and the, the whole push of, you know, like sin is my fault, sin is my fault.
I'm responsible for my sin.
Um, you know, just the phrase, it's not your fault or just the phrase that like says in your fault.
Um, it took me a little bit to understand that, um, from a Christian perspective.
And, you know, I think that's,
part of the reason we do see this pendulum swing now, where it's like, now it's like, I think sometimes just to say to somebody, look, this isn't your fault.
It's sometimes the most loving thing you can do.
I mean, you're not excusing them.
We are not in a position to forgive people like Jesus did.
We're not in a position to say your sins are forgiven you.
We're not talking about their sins.
We're talking about their situation.
You know, it's not your fault.
You grew up with crappy parents, you know, like if you were abused as a kid, like that's not your fault.
Like I'm blaming you for that.
The fact that you're struggling with this right now, like that's not your fault.
And I think that, you know, that is, you know, that whole idea was so fought against.
Like there was just such an emphasis on like, no, like this is your fault.
And this is your fault.
And yeah, I think we're seeing like this really weird,
mushy Christianity come from it.
Yeah, exactly.
As an illustration, and I don't want to be unnecessarily judgmental or harsh towards this guy, but John Christ, he recently came back.
A wonderful human being.
Yeah, he came back to Instagram.
He's back.
He was out for about eight months because of allegations
kind of nasty.
He was sexting.
Yeah, he was seducing people.
What a creep.
He looked like a creep.
I always thought he was a creep.
He just looks like a creep.
A little bit of a creep.
He just has this creep vibe.
Anyway, he posted this video upon his return, just thanking people for their support and saying, I've been in rehab and recovery for the past eight months and all this stuff.
To his credit, he says, I take responsibility for the decisions that I made.
That's good.
But he, I mean, he never, he never mentioned sin or he never mentioned, I need to repent of my sinful choices.
He talked about I need to value my own mental health and I need to heal.
So that's almost the new sin.
Mental health is, is has replaced the term sin and healing has replaced the term repentance.
Now again, if I were to sit down with,
You know, John Chris face-to-face say, did you think what you're doing is sin huge?
I'm sure you'd say yes.
Oh, yeah.
Right.
And you'll probably say, yeah, I repent.
So I'm not going to say words is important.
We say words.
Right.
I think it's an illustration of how that shift has kind of happened.
Sure.
And for me personally, using those terms instead of I send and I need to repent makes it a lot more palatable.
My issues might send a whole lot more palatable.
You know, well, I just need to heal the broken pieces of my life instead of like, man, I love myself and I want to live for myself and I need God's grace to repent and change from that.
And so yeah, they're saying, no, I mean, could they argue being the devil's advocate here?
I mean, could they argue like, yeah, like that, if you look at Jesus' ministry, just a second, I just got to knock at the door.
Look at my gun real quick.
Oh, that was kind of hilarious.
What?
Oh, no, Emily has just been sick in bed and she just ordered Panera and like, it just came to our door and like, open our bedroom to our monkeys.
Is this yours?
And she's like laying in the dark.
He's like, Oh, yes.
Thank you.
What a great world we live in.
You could just.
Wow.
While you're over here podcasting, Panera podcasting wife and Emily is just trying to stay alive over here ordering soup from Panera.
Yeah, I think we both had the Rona this past week.
Really?
Well, I have no idea.
I'm not getting tested, dude.
First of all, I don't want Bill Gates to know where I am.
I don't want Bill Gates to find me.
He's going to find me and all that crazy stuff.
Have you seen pictures of what they do to test you?
They stick a frickin' stick up your nose?
I'm not doing that for a freakin' cold.
I'll stay inside for two weeks.
I'm not going to let someone stick a swab up my nose.
No thanks.
I hate doctor things.
You just, you just gave the rona to the poor Panera delivery boy.
No, it just drops it off at the door and they leave.
So, yeah.
Anyway, anyway, I'm saying Jesus ministry like a whole like mental.
Yeah.
I mean, couldn't you argue that like Jesus's main ministry here was to restore a broken world and to heal a broken world to, to walk with him?
So I mean, is it really that far off to say that?
what we need is restoration.
Oh, absolutely.
I think it's a nuanced balance, right?
That says we are completely broken and we sin because we are broken and we're broken because we sin, right?
It's almost like a, it's a combination of victim and offender.
in each one of us that we are sinners.
And our own sin and the sins of those around us has created brokenness in our own lives that we need healing and restoration from.
And I think that's the balance that we need to strike.
On the one hand, it's all sin and no idea of brokenness.
that needs to be healed.
And the other said, it's all just brokenness and needs to be healed without the personal responsibility of, I sinned, I need to repent, right?
And that's why Jesus literally came to earth was to forgive the sins.
Yeah.
Those come to him.
So it's a...
But then, you know, we're also enemies of God.
Right.
And it's, you know, there is a balance there, you know, because if you just go around telling people, you're an enemy of God, like, well, I'm broken and I'm,
I have post traumatic stress.
It's like, well, you're an enemy of God and you're evil, which is true.
But God, like you're also God's creation.
He also values you.
He also wants you to return to him.
He's also calling you like a gentle shepherd to return to his flock.
And it's so incredible how many different allegories God uses for his relationship with us, with us.
And I went full Mike Tyson there.
We had to relate with it with us.
And let me know what you think of this, but I've, and maybe this isn't entirely accurate, but there's so much of that is regulated to the Trinity.
Like we are enemies of God, God, the Father, but we are, you know, being called and shepherded by Jesus Christ.
to come to the Father.
And I think that's, I don't know, it's an interesting thing I noticed.
Yeah, I mean, the Bible talks about Jesus being the mediator between God and man, to restore mankind to a right relationship with the Father.
Obviously, we're not saying like God, God, the Father, standing with his arms crossed.
you know, just kind of fuming while Jesus is the compassionate one that I'll take care of this.
I mean, they're both God, right?
The same person.
The father sent the son, right?
The father sent the son because he loves us.
But yeah, I think the point being it's we so often react in extremes when the approach of Jesus was the perfect balance.
It was, yes, you are broken and I've come to heal you.
but your problem is you're sinful and you don't want my healing.
And so I need to give you a new heart.
I need to wash you clean so that you can receive the healing that I provide.
And here, what I think the biggest issue with this whole turning of this terminology and this phrasing towards just like,
I need healing from my mental health and restoration from God and need God to just come alongside me and restore me.
And if that's it, then I think you miss so much of the beauty of the gospel, which is that like God is not only doing that, he's doing that to one of his sworn enemies.
He's doing that to somebody that it is in his nature to destroy and judge and punish.
And I think when you don't have that included in this whole story, it doesn't carry as much weight.
And I think that's why this has resulted in just a mushy theological church because they're not really understanding the gospel.
And it goes back to how do you define health?
When you say mental health, what is health to you?
Does it include the restoration of a sworn enemy of God to the father?
Does it include Christ's likeness becoming more holy and becoming like him?
Or as we see in kind of like the mushy Christianity, health is happening.
It's having a community.
It's a spiritual eye of version of what the world already offers.
Interesting.
It's like, hey, this is how you can live.
It's almost a health and wealth gospel.
for sure transferred over to the to the mind, right?
A healthy, wealthy mind.
It's not as like 60s is like, you know, give to God and I'll give you a back $100,000 in your paycheck.
It's a little bit more gift to God and he'll, you know, give you, make your life easy.
Right.
Yeah.
Like he'll give you peace and he'll give you friends and yeah.
That's interesting.
That just kind of clicks for me.
Like it's not, you know, it's just another version of, you know, we're just kind of,
to plugging spirituality into what the world already offers.
Which isn't that just the tendency of, why don't you do that so much?
We're so stupid.
We're such a sheep, man.
We are, dude.
We're just, which we literally are.
I mean, that's what the Bible says we are.
We are literal sheep.
We are.
We are sheeples.
Anyway, so there's two things.
When I consider the positive aspects of mental health,
Two things that I thought of that Christianity provides that mental health, secular mental health movement cannot provide.
So first one, going back to that self talk, self care, a big theme in mental health movement is giving grace to yourself, right?
You are the one who needs to be kind to yourself.
Granted, when your worldview does not include God, the source of grace, which they recognize is necessary.
We need grace.
The source of grace is necessarily limited to yourself and other people.
So you hear phrases, be kind to yourself.
Don't be afraid to get help.
And again, the Bible recognizes that we need to think rightly about ourselves.
We need to get help from other people.
Those are both great things.
But here's what Christianity offers that the world can't is that grace and strength comes from outside of humanity, right?
It is something that you don't have to do for yourself.
You don't have to depend on other sinful people.
It is from outside of humanity itself.
I mean, think of like Matthew 11, 20 through 30, Jesus saying, come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden and I will give you rest.
Take my yoke upon you and learn of me for I'm gentle and lowly in heart and you will find rest for your souls for my yoke is easy and my burden is light.
Philippians four, right?
Talking about anxiety says be anxious for nothing, but with prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God and what happens?
God's peace that surpasses all understanding is gonna guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus.
God's gonna guard your mind.
that the grace and strength comes from him, not inside humanity.
Matthew six, don't be anxious about your life, what you'll eat, what you'll put on.
God knows those things.
Which of you by worrying can add one year to his span of life, depend on God for that.
First Peter, cast all your anxieties on him because he cares for you.
So this is just an incredible aspect of Christianity that we recognize a brokenness.
We recognize the value of community and all those things.
But even in the sense of community, of receiving grace from other people, we recognize even that grace comes from God's grace.
I mean, if you've ever been as a Christian, if you've ever been a part of a community that is not centered on God, it just
it can turn into a source of anxiety, like I've experienced that before.
And I would say the only thing that doesn't, but it's not centered on God as shared experiences.
And that will result, I would say, in good friendships, but obviously not lasting, everlasting friendships.
But when you have a community, especially a Christian community that claims to be a Christian community and just doesn't,
make their community centered around Christ.
It becomes just kind of meh.
It's just, it's just kind of like, what are we doing?
Exactly.
What are we doing guys?
Sure, you can enjoy time together.
Yeah.
Great time.
Totally.
But yeah, it becomes unified around shared experiences, which is why you end up, especially, you know, back in youth group days, right in church.
Yeah.
That's why clicks form, right?
Right.
Because you center around shared experiences of others.
and it becomes different subsets.
And it just becomes basically gathering with other humans for no solid reason.
No, no, no spiritual reason.
But I mean, this is an incredible thing about believing in God and what he's done.
It's like there is someone outside of mankind who has the shoulder strong enough to take on my anxieties.
has the care and compassion who's willing to take on those cares and anxieties.
And that we can bring those requests to him at any time.
So that's something that mental health can't.
I don't know.
Awesome.
Yeah, right?
You know, I mean, like it's not humans, okay?
It's not us.
And if it's not us, that means it's not you.
Like it's not something you need to do.
And I think, you know,
We've talked about how this modern translation of mental health in Christianity has resulted in some mushy theology.
I think you can almost say the same thing about what it used to be in a lot of fundamentalist circles of this kind of prescription mentality of like, take your Bible prescription and you'll be fine.
And the reason is because you're not taking your Bible prescription.
And that's just another translation of how the world solves things.
And it falls flat and it makes people
really get frustrated at God.
Because what's going to happen to that Christian who kind of has this very flowy, mushy, emotionally healthy relationship with God, and that's all it is.
As soon as something crazy happens, as soon as a death happens, as soon as something comes, they're going to fall apart.
It's going to be like, God, I thought you were supposed to make me emotionally healthy and secure.
Why are you making my life hard right now?
And I think either God can
build them up through that, obviously.
But sometimes I think you'll see it just, you know, they cast it off.
They become atheist or agnostic or they just lose their faith altogether.
Yeah.
And going back to the, you know, those four factors for mental health, community was a big one, right?
What Scripture says fourth for us is, you know what, community is good and God calls us to community.
But even if you find yourself in a situation where that is, you are deprived of that,
like a global pandemic where you are isolated, do you know that mental health from a biblical perspective is still possible?
Because that grace and strength comes from Christ, it comes from Him and Him alone, right?
So it actually supersedes that those factors that are so important.
And say, you know what, you actually can achieve that even if you can't get that, right?
And tell our listeners, like, and I've felt this,
You know, like just being isolated.
You know, this past week, I've been a little sick.
I haven't been able to work out.
You can't go to a gym.
I can't join a gym right now.
Can't do CrossFit.
You know, I can't go to church.
I could protest, maybe that'll give me some, you know, community.
Maybe if I decide to be an activist, I'll have some community, but can't go to church.
That's a mental toll, man.
I mean, that's... Yeah, and it truly does.
And I think it's like, you have to acknowledge that.
It's okay for that to have a mental toll.
We're not saying like, oh, you're not a good Christian because you're letting these things affect you.
It's like, no, but, you know, there is hope and there is, you know, there's something else God wants to show you and teach you about himself and
You know, he can fill those holes and he will if you seek him.
Right.
And, you know, that's encouraging.
And that's an encouraging message for every Christian right now to hear because we can't gather, you know, we can't see each other.
That those words of Jesus in Matthew 11, he always tells us to come unto him.
In those verses, he's recognizing and acknowledging you guys are laboring your heavy laden.
Um, you, you, your souls are not at rest.
Right.
He acknowledges that.
He realizes this is a human problem.
And he's saying, uh, you can learn of me, take my yoke upon you.
Um, and you'll find rest.
Right.
It's awesome.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
The second thing that, that we have in Christ that the world can offer, um, is that peace and health are accessible.
even in to use that term, toxic situations, right?
The goal of mental health, one of the main goals is to create spaces conducive for mental health and human flourishing.
And that's a noble goal, right?
We wouldn't knock that.
That's good.
Like as much as we can to provide spaces for human beings to be mentally healthy and flourish, that's that is a good thing.
Absolutely.
And there are genuinely toxic situations, you know, abusive home, you know, things that are just awful.
And the Bible does say there's times you need to remove yourself from those toxic situations.
Bad company corrupts good morals, make no friendship with a man given to anger or go with a raffle man, right?
So it's acknowledging that.
Those aren't as catchy, though.
You can't say those in Instagram.
Right.
But like,
If we have friendship with a raffle man, hashtag self care.
So yeah, like that's not knocking that, you know, there's times when you do have to remove yourself all that.
Yeah.
If we actually want a hope and a piece that is accessible, then we need a hope and a piece that's not completely dependent on our circumstances.
Right.
Because sometimes it's impossible to remove yourself from a
quote unquote, toxic situation.
Right, absolutely.
Does that mean in those situations, peace and joy are impossible?
Or is there a way to still find peace when life is garbage?
Yeah, and I think from a secular standpoint, a great book on that is the seven habits of a highly affected people person.
You know, like the whole action, reaction mentality, like there's actually a sliver in there that is your decision.
You have a decision before you can make a choice before you react to whatever is going on around you or stimulus response, I think is how it puts it.
You have a stimulus, you have a decision and then you have a response.
And I think, you know, that is fundamentally a Christian thing because, you know, we are, you know, as believers, we're, you know, renewed, we have,
autonomy as individuals created by God.
And we have the ability, you know, through terrible influences to make a decision to, um, make a decision to not let that affect us or make a decision to love someone, make a decision to pray for that person.
Um, you know, I think that's one of the more powerful things I've done in my life is just like when you're letting somebody get under your skin,
frustrated at a boss or co-worker, family member, friend, just like you have the ability to decide to pray for that person.
And like as soon as you do that sometimes, like you just like, Lord help that person, just give them peace, give them strength and you know, help them to just come either come to a knowledge of you or help them to find healing.
And it's just like you're just not bothered or just gone.
It's like, yeah, it's just, it's amazing.
the very active deciding something different than what, you know, the stimulus demands and it makes a huge difference.
So yeah.
And I think our sinful response to the whole toxic terminology.
And again, I'm not knocking every application of that.
I'm saying our sinful tendency, reaction to that is to make too many things toxic, throw that label on to too many things.
And as a result,
living a very defensive lifestyle.
Yeah.
Right.
Interesting.
Yeah.
Like you just, you know, you're not, you don't make me feel good.
Exactly.
You know, being around you doesn't make me feel good.
It's really easy to slap that label on someone and say, um, I need to prioritize my mental health.
And for that reason, I need to kick you out of my life.
Right.
I've seen that.
Yeah.
Um, what is this?
Oh, I'll have to send it to you.
It was quite one, one of my old friends shared it.
Um, something about like, oh, it was called like emotional consent, right?
Like you need to like get emotional consent from people.
And it comes, I think it stems from that whole idea where you need to like, you know, let people know before you're about to unload, you know, and I'm like, this just like, what is this?
This is not how people like this isn't how people interact with each other.
Like we're turning into androids, like asking,
I don't ask your emotional consent.
I am emotional right now.
Do I have your consent to be emotional around you?
It's like, no.
Who's going to say no?
Well, I think isn't that just, but they do.
And like there's this whole thread.
Fragile, like, yeah, so fragile as humans.
There's this whole thread of like how to respond to somebody that's being emotionally needy.
And it was along the lines of just like,
like, you know, mention your mental health and just let them know that like, you know, there's this, you know, you need to first take care of you and like, you know, it's nothing against them, but you just can't deal with their baggage right now.
And I'm just like, whoa, like, this is like, that sounds like anything like a high school girl would say to another high school girl that's having drama issues.
You know, like, I just need to like just back away because of my own mental health.
And I'm like, how stupid
Selfish is that like what a bunch of garbage like It's like that's like how they recommend like on these online things like oh, yeah Like you know give emotional consent and let them know that they don't have your emotional consent But it's like and reality like you know what I would tell a friend that was just being way too neat I'd be like man like look I'm tired Can't deal this right now.
Can we talk about this later?
Yeah like
That took two seconds, but like, it's like one on Earth.
Like, dude, like, I can't handle your BS right now.
Can we just?
Can we go like play video game and maybe that'll work itself out?
You know, but I think one of the joys again, when everyone is stretched then with anxiety and depression and and worry and sorrow and all this stuff, the troubles and cares of other people.
are very difficult to deal with, right?
And if we have found our arrest and security in Christ, who is sovereign over our anxieties, sovereign over our trials, sovereign over our pain, that frees us to live and love other people a little bit more, if you can use the term recklessly.
because your peace, your mental health, so to speak, are in Christ.
You're not dependent on other people for that.
You have to depend on yourself for that.
And so you might have a little bit more strength and grace to put up with that person that you really can't handle.
You don't need, and that's the problem with those, you need to have this community healthy career or whatever.
Those are all good things,
You don't need to maintain those to be a healthy person.
You know, if those things fall apart and I think like what a lot of people, what we're, what we're seeing now is people are following that, right?
Like, okay, I have a career of a community.
I'm engaged, blah, blah, blah.
And it's like they're spinning four plates, five, 10 plates sometimes.
And they're trying to not let any one of them hit the ground and, um,
It's like, ah, and they stress out about the fact that they need to like keep all these things spinning in order to make themselves happy.
But in reality, it's like, no, like, you know, that's stupid, just like chill.
And with the pandemic, what happened?
Like all those four or five plates shattered to the ground all at once.
Right.
And now people are like, well, all of these things that are necessary for me to be mentally healthy.
I don't have access to.
Right.
And so yeah, it's a mess, but here's the incredible thing.
Like, so, you know, having peace and strength, even in toxic situations, right?
Obviously granted and acknowledging their times when if you can get out, you should get out, right?
We acknowledge those situations.
Think of Paul in 2 Corinthians 12, where he said that three times he pleaded with the Lord that the thorn in the flesh would be removed from him and it wouldn't.
He was stuck with it.
And God told them, my grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.
And so how do Paul respond?
I boast all the more gladly in my weaknesses so that the power of Christ may rest upon me.
And listen to this, he says, for the sake of Christ then, I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, calamities.
for when I am weak, then I am strong.
You know what's interesting about that is he doesn't even mention insults for Christ.
Maybe just on his looks.
Which was the thing.
I mean, he's getting insulted because his nose was too big.
Yeah.
And he's like, I'm thankful for that.
Right.
Yeah.
Wow.
Or he has this weird personality thing, and like, man, I'm an idiot.
I don't do well in social situations.
They're like, I always put my foot in my mouth, which is probably something Paul would
do all the time.
He said to you, people accuse him of not being eloquent of speech, right?
It talks about an impediment.
You probably had some sort of speech impediment, which is probably why God forced him to write letters.
Paul, I don't want to go to Rome.
Really bad.
But isn't that interesting?
I wonder if he did have something like a speech impediment.
And because God's like, no, you're actually going to be writing most of the New Testament for me, Paul.
I'm going to make it so that not only are you going to be forced to write letters to these churches, but it's going to be your primary form of communication because you're terrible talking.
I mean, it would fit the bill because like, you know, God called, it seems to like make sense for who God calls, you know what I mean?
Like Moses.
Yeah.
Moses is like, I can't talk to people like terrible talking.
So yeah, like speculating about that kind of stuff.
Yeah, we'll have to ask them someday, right?
But yeah, like insults or weaknesses, just physical weaknesses, right?
Physical ailments, calamities, that's like natural things in cancer, some sort of congenital defect.
Anything, yeah.
And so all of those things are things that from a worldly perspective, we look at and say, these are inhibiting my mental health.
And Paul's saying, these things are strengthening my mental health.
These things are actually making the power of Christ more obvious in my life.
You know, Jesus said, John 16, I've said these things to you that in me, you may have peace.
In the world, you will have tribulation, but take our, I've overcome the world.
And then, you know, Paul says, talking about our outer self is wasting away, but we don't lose heart.
A light momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison.
So it's just,
For Christians to exchange that eternal hope, even in rotten situations, to exchange the grace and strength we have outside of humanity itself, to exchange that for a just a sad substitute of a Christianized, spiritualized version of just therapeutic lifestyle is really we're doing a disservice to ourselves.
We're missing out.
the joys that Christ has set before us.
To listeners, even to myself included, just this week, work on exchanging those desires back.
As men, I think it's really easy to get caught up in career.
and building wealth.
And those are good pursuits.
There's nothing wrong with having wealth in a career.
But if that's what you're pursuing, exchange it for the presence of Christ, exchange that desire.
I'm not talking about the possibility of ever having a successful career.
But if you had to choose between one and the other, if it comes down to whether or not you're going to choose one or the other,
which a lot of times it does, if we're being real.
Choose Christ.
Just do it.
Just do it this week.
Just think about that.
I find myself, I don't want to think about that.
I'm like, I don't want to because I want those things so bad.
I want to have passive income or
I want to like have this career where people look at Sam Barry and they're like, oh, dang man, what a smart guy.
What a smart chap he is.
You know, and like, you know, don't like stop.
Just if you're scared of even considering that choice, if, if, if the choice of either choosing successful career or choosing presence of God, if even that thought just makes you a little squirmy.
Um, just dig into it.
Ask God to uncover it for you.
Just be like, God, I don't want to think about this, but help me think about it.
I don't want to give this up, but help me think about what it would be like to give it up.
I'm just start there.
Um, because it's just, it's not going to satisfy.
I can't tell you like, you know, being in, in, in real estate sales, talking with real estate agents and they make bank, some of them do, you know, some of them were just making tons of money and there's, they're stressed out of their minds.
And it's not.
They're happy and it's so interesting to me.
It's like you have everything.
I would be so, you know, in my eyes, I'm like, man, I'd be so happy if I were making 100,000 a month.
That would be killer, man.
I would just be having a blast, but they're not.
So make the exchange, just do it.
What you just explained right there is first Timothy six, godliness with contentment is great gain.
for we brought nothing into this world and we will carry, we will, we cannot take anything out of this world.
But if we have food and clothing with these will be content.
And then look at, listen to the verse nine, but those who have a desire to be rich fall into temptation into a snare, into many senseless and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction.
Oh, yeah.
Give it up, right, dude?
And then do you really want ruined destruction?
I mean, give it up.
I mean, that's what this country is, man.
That's what this country is all about.
It's around you 24-7, the nicer car, the nicer house, the nicer wife, the nicer career, the recognition, blah, blah, blah.
He says, through this craving,
some have wandered away from the faith and have pierced themselves with many pangs.
I mean, it isn't that description of our culture these days, really wealthy people, but that have pierced through with many pangs that are just this thing that's supposedly supposed to bring security and create a safe space for mental health and human flourishing is doing nothing but causing more pain.
Incredible.
Yeah.
You look at, I don't know if you've seen this like Jeffrey Epstein,
documentaries on Netflix, just like everything in the world.
And he was a slave to just disgusting pedophilia and sexual pursuits, billionaire, just billions of dollars.
And he ended up being suicided in a
prison self.
I mean, it's just, and then, you know, the moral of the story is like Hillary Clinton will get to you.
Exactly.
No matter what.
We're really trying to show, show.
We're in the destruction.
That's politics.
Dude, this just laying Maxwell stuff, man.
And dude, fricking.
It's okay.
Hope like Trump wishes her well.
What, what did he tweet, did he tweet something about his conference, they asked him about, he said that about Kim Jong-un.
He said that, he says that about every like, every person.
I don't know where very well, but like, I wish you well, you know, I wish you well.
I really do.
Kim Jong-un, I know he murders people on an alien business, but you know,
It's hard to be the leader of a country.
It's okay.
I mean, I wish him well.
I really do.
I wish him.
In a recent interview, the interviewer asked him, why'd you wish him wish her well?
And he's like, well, because I mean, her boyfriend, Epstein, he went to prison and he either got murdered or committed suicides.
So she's in prison.
I wish her well.
Like, I don't know what happens to her.
Anyway, we have an internet troll as our president.
What's going on?
It's true.
But anyway, yeah, man, you're right on with that.
And I think, especially in the time right now, like along with Paul, take actually be thankful and be thankful for the areas of your life that
are less than ideal or expose your own weaknesses.
Dude, I hate my own weaknesses.
I hate thinking about the ways that I stink, right?
And I'm not saying we should dwell on those things.
But Paul's saying, actually, you know what?
If I have a clear picture that, wow, I'm not that impressive.
I have weaknesses, I have fears.
It actually magnifies
God's sufficient grace in that and you're able to throw yourself on that Instead of trying to muster up some sort of self-sufficiency Or value in your own heart, you know, I'm worth it all this stuff that you can you can preach to yourself and say in the mirror day day in and day out You can repeat those things to yourself constantly and none of those come to the level of resting in Christ who died for you and
you know, like gave you a new identity, you know, in him, so.
Yeah, dude.
Kill it.
Preach, preach, preach.
And he final has final, final words of golden.
Oh, nuggets.
You want to drop out of your pockets.
I mean, we've been dropping golden nuggets the whole time.
Nugget dropping.
Yeah, just just rude.
They're just plopping, plopping nuggets.
I thought that nuggets left and right.
That's right.
I don't think there's a nugget left to plop.
I think you're right.
I think we have two black butte porters worth of golden nuggets and just came out of my mouth.
I didn't understand.
Oh, goodness.
It's okay.
Our listeners will understand.
I think so.
I think we'll understand.
So go and stop.
Stop falling for the mushy Christianity.
Open your Bible.
Yeah, the real thing.
And make sure you defeat the Sith.
Do not join them.
Yes.
Absolutely.
Yep.
Is that just Star Wars memes?
Oh no, there's a bunch of them.
Here's a good one.
You know what we need to get is one of those actual mixing boards where you can upload stuff like that and it'll actually like go into.
I didn't know.
Anyway, all right, we're falling apart here.
That's okay.
Hey, hey, we got through an hour and 20 minutes.
Good, yes.
Joe will be proud.
You only dipped into politics once or twice.
That's right.
You acknowledged our white privilege, so that's good.
So we get points there.
So I expect to be
Uh, cleared of anything I say for at least the next two weeks.
Cause I did absolve myself.
I rest the day.
Same as the day and day out thing.
Is it a day?
I have to do this every day.
New way to divest yourself of your daily penance.
Yes.
I have to.
Wow.
For your own mental health.
It's like it's legalism.
It's what it is.
It is.
But that's your wife's agility talking.
You're just.
That is a white fragility and defensiveness.
I'm so scared that.
All these minorities are going to be better than me.
I'm just so scared.
Dude, there's already... You know how many minorities are better than me?
There's so freaking many.
I mean, there's at least a bajillion millionaire black people and Latino or Latinx or whatever you're supposed to say about them now.
There's so many of them that are just more wealthy than me and they're more fun than I am and more
excited about life and I am so like breakdown at this point.
What am I going to do?
Like just like, do they really think I'm just like crying in my house?
Like, oh my gosh, there's a rich black person out there.
What am I going to know?
So I'm just broken.
Yep.
Well, I'm glad we were able to end this on a political night.
We made it so far and that we just couldn't hold it back anymore.
So, okay, so new theory.
Politics is when your mind just shuts off and it's just what comes out of your mouth.
Oh, so that explains everything we hear from Washington.
It explains all of our congresspeople right now because they don't have any brains.
They have zero.
Dude, that video you shared, that was amazing.
You'll have to put a link to that or something.
Especially when they're interrogating the big businesses for doing all the things that they're doing.
I know.
They're like, oh, like the government.
So yeah, we should be the only ones allowed to do that.
So taxing people.
So you're emitting taxing is bad.
So funny.
All right, Joel, I hope we did you proud.
I hope that we helped before for at least this week until you return and that we can be reunited.
We can hear about your camping story and your life updates, and I'm sure he has lots of important exciting life updates to share with everybody.
Stay tuned for next week, folks, because it's going to be so going to be exciting.
It's going to hit the fan and spray all over the wall.
All these nuggets we've been dropping.
It's going to hit the fan.
They're going to hit the fan.
We need to stop this thing, man.
This is crashing and burning.
All right.
That's right.
Goodbye, everybody.
Good time.
Good talk, Sam.
I enjoyed it.
Good talk.
I did too.
Yeah, dude.
It's fun.
All right.
Peace.
Stop.
Bye.